README.md, before:

Documentation available: http://institutefordiseasemodeling.github.io/dtk-tools

The `dtk` package is intended to strengthen and simplify the interaction between researchers and the [DTK model](http://idmod.org/idmdoc/).

Modules contained in this package are intended to:
- Empower the user to configure diverse simulations and arbitrarily complex campaigns built up from a standardized library of configuration fragments and utility functions; 
- Facilitate transparent switching between local and remote HPC commissioning, job-status queries, and output analysis;
- Enable the configuration of arbitrary collections of simulations (e.g. parameteric sweeps) through an extensible library of builder classes; 
- Collect a library of post-processing analysis functionality, e.g. filtering, mapping, averaging, plotting.

#### Installation

To install the dtk-tools, first clone the repository:
```
git clone https://github.com/InstituteforDiseaseModeling/dtk-tools.git
```

Make sure you have Python 2.7 installed (available [here](https://www.python.org/downloads/)).

From a command-prompt (as admin), run the following from the **dtk-tools** directory:
```
python -m pip install --upgrade pip
python setup.py 
```

Add the path to `dtk_tools` to your `PYTHONPATH` environment variable.

**Note:** If `pip` command is not found on your system, make sure to add the Python scripts directory (by default: `C:\Python27\Scripts`) 
to your `PATH` environment variable.

To test if dtk-tools is correctly installed on your machine issue a:
```
dtk -h
```
If the command succeed and present you with the details of the dtk command you are all set!

**Note:** If you run into issues updating numpy on Windows, under the dtk-tools\install folder try:

```
pip install numpy-1.11.0+mkl-cp27-cp27m-win_amd64.whl
```

**Note:** EMOD DTK is required to work with dtk-tools. You can download the quick start at: https://github.com/InstituteforDiseaseModeling/EMOD-QuickStart

If you plan to run simulations on COMPS, you will also need the pyCOMPS package. Available [here](https://github.com/InstituteforDiseaseModeling/pyCOMPS).

#### Linux users
Linux users, you need to install:
- python-snappy
- snappy-dev
- LAPACK
In order for the tools to work. 

#### Setup

To configure your user-specific paths and settings for local and HPC job submission, run the `dtk setup` command.
The command will display an interface allowing you to:

* Change the default `LOCAL` configuration (Configuration used by default for all simulations and running on your local computer)
* Change the default `HPC` configuration (Configuration used if you append a `--HPC` to a command and that will run on HPC environment)
* Add a new configuration block (If you wish to create a configuration block that you can later reference by `--BLOCK_NAME`)
* Edit the configuration blocks

In this interface, the **default configurations** refers to the configuration blocks accessible everywhere in your environment (by default `LOCAL` and `HPC`).
The **local configurations** refers to the configurations stored in the `simtools.ini` file in your current working directory (the directory from where you call the `dtk setup` command) and are
accessible only to commands ran there. 

Note that it is possible to have a local configuration called `LOCAL` or `HPC` which will overrides the global defaults. 

One can verify the proper system setup by navigating to the `test` directory and running the unit tests contained therein, e.g. by executing `nosetests` if one has the [`nose`](http://nose.readthedocs.org/en/latest/index.html) package installed.

Simulation job management is handled through the various `dtk` command-line options, e.g. `dtk run example_sweep` or `dtk analyze example_plots`.  For a full list of options, execute `dtk --help`.  Many example configurations for simulation sweeps and analysis processing may be found in the `examples` directory.

#### Dependencies

All dependencies are automatically installed by the `pip install -e .` command but you 64-bit Windows binaries may be downloaded [here](http://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs).

Interoperability with the Java layer of COMPS requires installation of the pyCOMPS package.  [More detailed instructions](https://github.com/InstituteforDiseaseModeling/pyCOMPS/blob/master/README.md) can be found within the [`pyCOMPS`](https://github.com/InstituteforDiseaseModeling/pyCOMPS) repository.

<a href="https://zenhub.com"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ZenHubIO/support/master/zenhub-badge.png"></a>

Commit message:

Update README file based on the new changes of setup.py

README.md, after:

Documentation available: http://institutefordiseasemodeling.github.io/dtk-tools

The `dtk` package is intended to strengthen and simplify the interaction between researchers and the [DTK model](http://idmod.org/idmdoc/).

Modules contained in this package are intended to:
- Empower the user to configure diverse simulations and arbitrarily complex campaigns built up from a standardized library of configuration fragments and utility functions; 
- Facilitate transparent switching between local and remote HPC commissioning, job-status queries, and output analysis;
- Enable the configuration of arbitrary collections of simulations (e.g. parameteric sweeps) through an extensible library of builder classes; 
- Collect a library of post-processing analysis functionality, e.g. filtering, mapping, averaging, plotting.

#### Installation

To install the dtk-tools, first clone the repository:
```
git clone https://github.com/InstituteforDiseaseModeling/dtk-tools.git
```

Make sure you have Python 2.7 installed (available [here](https://www.python.org/downloads/)).

From a command-prompt (as admin), run the following from the **dtk-tools** directory:
```
pip install --upgrade setuptools
python setup.py 
```

Add the path to `dtk_tools` to your `PYTHONPATH` environment variable.

**Note:** If `pip` command is not found on your system, make sure to add the Python scripts directory (by default in Windows: `C:\Python27\Scripts`)
to your `PATH` environment variable.

To test if dtk-tools is correctly installed on your machine issue a:
```
dtk -h
```
If the command succeed and present you with the details of the dtk command you are all set!

**Note:** if you setup dtk-tools on MacBook with virtualenv, you may encounter an error below:

RuntimeError: Python is not installed as a framework. The Mac OS X backend will not be able to function correctly if Python is not installed as a framework. See the Python documentation for more information on installing Python as a framework on Mac OS X. Please either reinstall Python as a framework, or try one of the other backends. If you are Working with Matplotlib in a virtual enviroment see 'Working with Matplotlib in Virtual environments' in the Matplotlib FAQ

Fix: You can fix this issue by using the backend Agg:

Go to /Users/yourname/.matplotlib and open/create matplotlibrc and add the following line

backend : Agg

it should work for you.

**Note:** EMOD DTK is required to work with dtk-tools. You can download the quick start at: https://github.com/InstituteforDiseaseModeling/EMOD-QuickStart

If you plan to run simulations on COMPS, you will also need the pyCOMPS package. Available [here](https://github.com/InstituteforDiseaseModeling/pyCOMPS).

#### Linux users
Linux users, you need to install:
- python-snappy
- snappy-dev
- LAPACK
In order for the tools to work.

Remark: the command ```python setup.py``` from previous step will do these installation for you!

#### Setup

To configure your user-specific paths and settings for local and HPC job submission, run the `dtk setup` command.
The command will display an interface allowing you to:

* Change the default `LOCAL` configuration (Configuration used by default for all simulations and running on your local computer)
* Change the default `HPC` configuration (Configuration used if you append a `--HPC` to a command and that will run on HPC environment)
* Add a new configuration block (If you wish to create a configuration block that you can later reference by `--BLOCK_NAME`)
* Edit the configuration blocks

In this interface, the **default configurations** refers to the configuration blocks accessible everywhere in your environment (by default `LOCAL` and `HPC`).
The **local configurations** refers to the configurations stored in the `simtools.ini` file in your current working directory (the directory from where you call the `dtk setup` command) and are
accessible only to commands ran there. 

Note that it is possible to have a local configuration called `LOCAL` or `HPC` which will overrides the global defaults. 

One can verify the proper system setup by navigating to the `test` directory and running the unit tests contained therein, e.g. by executing `nosetests` if one has the [`nose`](http://nose.readthedocs.org/en/latest/index.html) package installed.

Simulation job management is handled through the various `dtk` command-line options, e.g. `dtk run example_sweep` or `dtk analyze example_plots`.  For a full list of options, execute `dtk --help`.  Many example configurations for simulation sweeps and analysis processing may be found in the `examples` directory.

#### Dependencies

All dependencies are automatically installed by the `pip install -e .` command but you 64-bit Windows binaries may be downloaded [here](http://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs).

Interoperability with the Java layer of COMPS requires installation of the pyCOMPS package.  [More detailed instructions](https://github.com/InstituteforDiseaseModeling/pyCOMPS/blob/master/README.md) can be found within the [`pyCOMPS`](https://github.com/InstituteforDiseaseModeling/pyCOMPS) repository.

<a href="https://zenhub.com"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ZenHubIO/support/master/zenhub-badge.png"></a>
